UTFPR NOP IMPLEMENTATION PUBLIC LICENSE based on UNIVERSITY OF UTAH RESEARCH
FOUNDATION PUBLIC LICENSE Preface

UTFPR - Universidade Tecnológica Federal do Paraná (UTFPR - Federal University
of Technology - Paraná - Brazil). NOP - Notification Oriented Paradigm (or PON -
Paradigma Orientado a Notificações).

1. Definitions

1.1 "Commercial Use" means covered code utilized by USER to generate a revenue
stream, including but not limited to, embedding the source code in USER's
proprietary software, executable software, or consulting utilizing the source
code.

1.2 "Contributor" means each entity that creates or contributes to the creation
of Modifications.

1.3 "Covered Code" means the Original Source Code, Modifications, or the
combination of the Original Source Code and Modifications, in each case
including portions thereof. The Original Source Code, developed by the Federal
University of Technology - Paraná (UTFPR - Universidade Tecnológica Federal do
Paraná), hereinafter referred to as UNIVERSITY is described in the Source Code
notice required by Exhibit A.

1.4 "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered Code for making
modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, scripts used to control compilation and installation
of an Executable, or a list of source code differential comparisons against
either the Original Source Code or another well known, available Covered Code of
the Contributor's choice. The Source Code can be in a compressed or archival
form, provided the appropriate decompression or de-archiving software is widely
available for no charge.

1.5 "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism generally accepted in
the software development community for the electronic transfer of data.

1.6 "Larger Work" means a work, which combines Covered Code or portions thereof
with code not governed by the terms of this License.

1.7 "License" means this document.

1.8 "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent
possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any
and all rights conveyed herein.

1.9 "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the substance or
structure of either the Original Source Code or any previous Modifications. When
Covered Code is released as a series of files, a Modification is:

(a) Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file containing Original
Code or previous Modifications.

(b) Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or previous
Modifications.

1.10 "USER" (or "YOU") means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights
under, and complying with all of the terms of this License. For legal entities,
USER includes any entity, which controls, is controlled by, or is under common
control with You. For purposes of this definition, "control" means (a) the
power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity,
whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or
more of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

2. Source Code License.

2.1 The Initial Developer Grant. The UNIVERSITY hereby grants USER a world-wide,
royalty-free, non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual
property claims:

(a) to use, reproduce, modify, display, and perform, the Covered Code (or
portions thereof) with or without Modifications, or as part of a Larger Work.;
and

(b) under patents now or hereafter owned or controlled by UNIVERSITY, to make,
have made, and use ("Utilize") the Covered Code (or portions thereof), but
solely to the extent that any such patent is reasonably necessary to enable USER
to Utilize the Covered Code (or portions thereof) and not to any greater extent
that may be necessary to Utilize further Modifications or combinations.

(c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are effective on the
date the USER first receives Covered Code.

(d) No License is granted by UNIVERSITY for the Commercial Use of Covered Code
under this License.

(e) No License is granted by UNIVERSITY for the distribution of Covered Code
under this License.

2.2. Contributor Grant. Each Contributor hereby grants UNIVERSITY a world-wide,
royalty-free, non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual
property claims:

(a) to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the
Modifications created by such Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an
unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as Covered Code or as part of a
Larger Work; and

(b) under patents now or hereafter owned or controlled by Contributor, to
Utilize the Covered Code (or portions thereof), but solely to the extent that
any such patent is reasonably necessary to enable USER to Utilize the
Contributor Version (or portions thereof), and not to any greater extent that
may be necessary to Utilize further Modifications or combinations.

(c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.2(a) and (b) are effective on the
date the UNIVERSITY first receives the Covered Code.

3. Contributor Obligations

3.1. Intellectual Property Matters

(a) Third Party Claims. If USER has knowledge that a party claims an
intellectual property right in particular functionality or code (or its
utilization under this License), USER must include a text file with the source
code provided to UNIVERSITY titled "LEGAL" which describes the claim and the
party making the claim in sufficient detail that UNIVERSITY will know whom to
contact. If USER obtains such knowledge after USER makes the Modification
available to UNIVERSITY, USER shall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies
USER makes available thereafter and shall notify UNIVERSITY that new knowledge
has been obtained.

(b) Contributor APIs. If Your Modification is an application programming
interface and USER owns or controls patents, which are reasonably necessary to
implement that API, you must also include this information in the LEGAL file.

3.2. Required Notices. USER must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file
of the Source Code, and this License in any documentation for the Source Code,
where USER describes recipients' rights relating to Covered Code. If USER
created one or more Modification(s), USER may add name as a Contributor to the
notice described in Exhibit A. If it is not possible to put such notice in a
particular Source Code file due to its structure, then USER must include such
notice in a location (such as a relevant directory file) where a user would be
likely to look for such a notice.

3.3. Distribution of Executable Versions. - This license does not allow
distribution of the Covered Code by USER or Contributor.

3.4. Larger Works. USER may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with
other code not governed by the terms of this License. In such a case, USER must
make sure the requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code
including 2.1d and 2.1e.

4. Application of this License.

This License applies to Covered Code attached to the notice in Exhibit A.

5. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE,
FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE IS WITH USER. SHOULD ANY COVERED
CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE UNIVERSITY OR ANY OTHER
CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.
THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO
USE OF ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

6. TERMINATION.

This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically if
USER fails to comply with terms herein. All sublicenses to the Covered Code
which are properly granted shall survive any termination of this License.
Provisions which, by their nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination
of this License shall survive.

7. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL THE UNIVERSITY, ANY OTHER
CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH
PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO USER OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR
MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH
PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME
JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THAT EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO USER.

8. MISCELLANEOUS.

This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter hereof.
Nothing in this AGREEMENT shall be construed as conferring by implication,
estoppel or otherwise any license or rights other than those granted in this
License. This License shall be governed by Brazilian law provisions. The
application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International
Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any law or regulation which provides that
the language of a contract shall be construed against the drafter shall not
apply to this License.

EXHIBIT A.

The contents of this file are subject to the UTFPR NOP IMPLEMENTATION PUBLIC
LICENSE (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the
License.

Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for
the specific language governing rights and limitations under the License.

The Original Source Code is NOP FRAMEWORK CPP 4.0, released July 22, 2021. IT
WAS AN UTFPR SERVER accessible just with given login and password. This code is
based on other previous NOP Frameworks, being the Notification Oriented Paradigm
(NOP) research project managed by Prof. Jean Marcelo Simão and other professors,
namely Prof. Paulo Cézar Stadzisz as one of them.

The Original Source Code was developed by Felipe dos Santos Neves, in the
Federal University of Technology - Paraná / Brazil (UTFPR - Universidade
Tecnológica Federal do Paraná / Brasil), in the context of his Master in Science
research effort at PPGCA/UTFPR, under the advice of Prof. Robson Ribeiro
Linhares and Prof. Jean Marcelo Simão.

Portions created by UNIVERSITY are Copyright (C) 2020/2021, based upon previous
works of Federal University of Technology - Paraná (UTFPR - Universidade
Tecnológica Federal do Paraná). All Rights Reserved.

